---
title: Anti-pandemia
type: docs
---

# Immunization and collective knowledge in pandemia management

## Introduction

Based on ESSIF and reusing the experience of the Diploma use case. The description below can be implemented in several phases, where each one adds value in itself.
 
Using Sovereign identity on Blockchain in immunization we want to meet the main objectives of the use case:
- Use Verifiable Credentials to associate immunization & health information to citizens.
- Provide information to make better operational decisions through higher levels of traceability of vaccines and vaccination procedures. 
- Support the control of benefits and risks of vaccination programs.
- Provide information to improve protection and prevention of people during a pandemic situation using color coded schemas. 

### Functionalities

In times of virus crisis (eg. corona) citizens will be “color coded” for their health condition regarding the infection status in a digital way using smartphones. We use Verifiable Credentials to increase privacy and data control by the user, compared to the equivalent centralized applications developed in other regions like China or Korea. In addition, VCs improve the interoperability and usage of this data across borders in the European Union (and with other regions with agreements on this), without requiring a centralized repository.
 
The “color coding” uses several sources of information:
1. Health practitioners will issue to citizens different types of health status situation reports as special Verifiable Credentials. The credentials issued by practitioners will be based on lab tests, vaccination, diagnostics, etc.
2. Citizens can self-attest their health status using questionnaires, in a similar way that is done now with some apps developed in some countries for coronavirus crisis management. These credentials are of a different nature (non-professional), but they have proven to be of immense value in times of crisis.
3. Citizens can provide consent to use the GPS in their phones for different purposes, which can range from full tracking to explicit geo-tagging of some VC when the citizen considers it important. Some messages can be automatically collected in a central server (there may be one per country depending on the citizen), and the aggregated information from many citizens can be used and analyzed.
 
These health condition credentials/events are temporary and should be destroyed when a new (updated) credential provides a more recent view on the situation. The citizen should be in control of the set of credentials that were issued to her, including the possibility to delete them. It is even reasonable to be automatically destroyed after the crisis has passed. To stress this short-lived characteristic, we call them Disposable Verifiable Credentials.
 
The health condition credentials are tied to a digital identity of the issuing party. In case of practitioners this should be tied to their professional credentials. All data exchanges are accompanied by a GDPR consent encoded as Verifiable Claim so that legitimate use of the data can be proved.
 
Health condition changes, so these health condition credentials will be regularly updated and timestamping will determine which is most recent. For each latest health condition event, a barcode can be generated by the citizen using a smartphone and this code can be read by another smartphone (app). No physical contacts or pre-established relationship among parties are needed. These barcodes are destroyed (as they are only digital, this means that they will not resolve any information) when a new health condition credential is created.
 
The main system characteristics are:
- EBSI will have a global public registry of official health institutions (similar to the registry for Universities). The registry should be accessible externally by anybody in read mode, to verify the public identities of the health institutions
- The practitioners have public identities (as Verifiable Credentials), issued by the corresponding entities (the process may depend on the specific country), and they can be verified by anybody.
- In the first phase, it is not strictly necessary that the citizens have an official identity issued by the government. For crisis management it could be enough that they self-issue a DID which is then used in the credential issued by the practitioner when performing the test or vaccination procedure to the citizen.
- Communication is in general P2P (app-2-app) using QRs including the credential information.
- Credentials are stored in-app, except practitioner credentials which are stored in a public registry. Stale/old data is deleted.
- An interactive and patient focused e-consent system will be included in order to ensure the highest consent rate possible, integrated with the health status credentials. 
- Citizen data is only read by practitioners, not stored (equivalent of showing a piece of paper, but not copying it).
- The important exception being the case for government data analysis, for crisis management purposes.

